EZP-32195 - Perso API documentation rewrite pt. 1 (#1322)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/personalization/developer_guide/content_api.md

Otherwise it responds with status `202 (Accepted)`.

Once uploaded, the item is scheduled to be inserted in the database, and it is not directly available.

!!! note "Authentication considerations"

    For getting or posting content data, basic authentication is enabled by default.
    Use your customer ID and license key as username and password. 
    If authentication is enabled for recommendation requests and you want change this, contact <support@ibexa.co>.

## Request parameters

For a description of call attributes, see the following table:

| Parameter name | Description | Value |
|---|---|---|
| `customerid` | Your customer ID, as defined when [enabling Personalization](../enabling_personalization.md#configuring-mandator-credentials) (for example, "00000"). | alphanumeric |
| `itemid` | A unique ID of the content item/product. Used to identify the item in the customer's database. | integer |
| `itemtypeid` | An ID of the type of content item/product. In most cases, the value is 1 but the customer might have items/products of more than one type. | integer |

### Item object format

> For an example of content item object used for item import, see the following XML code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example XML representation of a Content item object used for item import can look like this: 
```

# Content API

Apart from the [events](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/personalization/event_types) 
collected by the recommendation client, the recommendation engine can use external information 
about the products.
This information must be uploaded to the recommendation engine by the administrator of the website.

The following information can be loaded to the recommendation solution:

- Product price - Products cheaper than the specified threshold can be filtered out from recommendations

> - Availability timeframe - Certain products are be recommended only in the specified time window.

Author: ```suggestion
- Availability timeframe - Certain products are be recommended only in the specified time window
```

> - Custom attributes - You can group recommendations and narrow down the results, for example, to non-food products or to news that are related to the end users's city

Author: ```suggestion
- Custom attributes - You can group recommendations and narrow down the results, for example, to non-food products or to news that are related to the end user's city
```

For more information about personalization, see [Personalization quickstart](../personalization_quickstart.md) and [Best practices](../best_practices/recommendation_integration.md).

The recommendation client provides a REST interface that accepts items in XML format.
You can use the interface to post item information within the request's body into the store, 
and to display or update the items directly.

> You can use HTTP methods to create, update or retrieve items that are located in the data store.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use HTTP methods to create, update or retrieve items that are in the data store.
```

## GET requests

Use the GET method to retrieve all information that is stored in the database for the given item ID:

`GET: https://admin.yoochoose.net/api/[customerid]/item/[itemtypeid]/[itemid]`

If the item is not found, the interface responds with status `404 (Not found)`. 

> Otherwise it responds with status `200 (OK)`.

Author: ```suggestion
Otherwise, it responds with status `200 (OK)`.
```

## POST requests

Use the POST request to create or update items with the given ID in the database:

`POST: https://admin.yoochoose.net/api/[customerid]/item`

A body of the request must contain a valid XML document.
If the XML content cannot be validated, the interface responds with status `400 (Bad Request)`. 
Otherwise it responds with status `202 (Accepted)`.

Once uploaded, the item is scheduled to be inserted in the database, and it is not directly available.

!!! note "Authentication"

    For getting or posting content data, basic authentication is enabled by default.
    Use your customer ID and license key as username and password. 
    If authentication is enabled for recommendation requests and you want to change this, contact support@ibexa.co.

## Request parameters

The following call attributes are available:

| Parameter name | Description | Value |
|---|---|---|
| `customerid` | Your customer ID, as defined when [enabling Personalization](../enabling_personalization.md#configuring-mandator-credentials) (for example, "00000"). | alphanumeric |

> | `itemid` | A unique ID of the Content item/product. Used to identify the item in the your database. | integer |

Author: ```suggestion
| `itemid` | A unique ID of the Content item/product. Used to identify the item in the database. | integer |
```

            </content-data>
        </content>
        <attributes>
            <!--  -->
            <attribute key="author" value="John Doe" />
            <attribute key="agency" value="dpa" />
            <attribute key="vendor" value="BOSCH" />
            <attribute key="weight" value="100" type="NUMERIC" />
        </attributes>
    </item>
</items>
```

!!! note "XML schema definition"

    The current schema that is used for interpreting the XML objects can be seen [here](https://admin.yoochoose.net/api/00000/item/schema.xsd).

> For a description of keys and attributes used in the XML object, see the following table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following keys and attributes used in the XML object are available:
```

| Key/Attribute | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `id` | A unique ID of the content item/product. This parameter is required. | integer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | A unique ID of the Content item/product. This parameter is required. | integer |
```

> | `type` | An ID of the type of content item/product. This parameter is required. | integer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `type` | An ID of the type of Content item/product. This parameter is required. | integer |
```

| `description`|Additional information about the item. | alphanumeric |
| `currency` | Currency used for the price. By default, prices are expressed in EUR. | ISO 4217 |

> | `price` | The item's price in the currency's fractional units (for example, cents).<br/>See below for a more information. | integer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `price` | The item's price in the currency's fractional units (for example, cents).<br/>See below for more information. | integer |
```

| `validfrom` | Together with `validto`, defines the lifespan of an item.<br/>If NULL or not available, the item is considered valid immediately.<br/>See below for more information. | ISO 8601 |
| `validto` | Together with `validfrom`, defines the lifespan of an item.<br/>If NULL or not available, the item is considered valid indefinitely.<br/>See below for more information. | ISO 8601 |

> | `categorypath` | A logical (website) navigation path through which the item can be reached in the customer's system.<br/>You can define multiple paths for the product.|-|alphanumeric, separated with "/" ("%2F") characters|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `categorypath` | A logical (website) navigation path through which the customer can reach the item in their system.<br/>You can define multiple paths for the product.|-|alphanumeric, separated with "/" ("%2F") characters|
```

!!! caution "Encoding limitation"

    Keys and their values can only contain letters, digits and underscore characters.
    Attribute keys are case-sensitive.

> **Currency**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Currency
```
?

If the currency does not have a fractional unit, the main unit is used, for example 12 for 12 Japanese Yen.
To check whether the currency has fractional units, see the [ISO 4217 standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217#cite_note-ReferenceA-6).

> **Validity**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Validity
```

>  Items with validity defined are recommended only in the specified timeframe. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Items with defined validity are recommended only in the specified timeframe. 
```

 Values in the `validto` and `validfrom` attributes must follow the [XSD format](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/#dateTime) and do not include the time zone. 
Time zone is always the time zone of the customer.

> **Category path**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Category path
```

With the data import interface, you can upload information about the paths to categories 
in which the product is located.
However, the category path can be also updated as a result of the "Click" events.
If you regularly upload product data, the "Click" event cannot contain the category path information.
Otherwise, the following negative side effects occur:

- Every new category path attached to the "Click" event is appended to a list of the categories of the product
- Imported product data overwrites the collected category paths

For example, when a product that is originally located under `%2FGarden%2F` is clicked in the "Hot Sellers" section, the category path `%2FTopSeller` is sent.

#### Content items/products with no attributes

All the elements and attributes except the `type` and `id` are optional.
You can therefore upload a product without any additional information.

> You do it, for example, when a random recommendation model is used or you want to want to apply 
> ad-hoc boosting and filtering of recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do it, for example, when a random recommendation model is used
or you want to apply ad-hoc boosting and filtering of recommendations.
```

> As a result, the recommendation engine randomly recommends the imported content items//products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, the recommendation engine randomly recommends the imported Content items/products.
```

> This can prove useful for a news agency, where new content items are published very often.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can prove useful for a news agency, where new Content items are published very often.
```

#### Free-form data

You can upload any data under the `<content>` key of the XML object.
This data is used in full-text analysis models only.

### Custom attributes

You can also define custom attributes under the `<attributes>` key.
This section can only contain values that are distinct and used to build pre-filtered models.

By default, it is assumed that every attribute is of type "NOMINAL", which means that 
there is a limited set of values, and values of an attribute are treated as distinct 
when calculating the results of a content-based model.

If you have an attribute that is of type "NUMERIC", and you add another attribute of the same type, 
the recommendation engine treats the two values as a range.

``` xml
<attribute key="size" value="4" type="NUMERIC" />
```

> However, if the other attribute is of type "NOMINAL", they are both just different and have no "distance-based similarity".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the other attribute is of type "NOMINAL", they are treated as different and have no "distance-based similarity".
```
maybe?

Another typical example of a custom attribute is the color of an item. 
To upload the value to the data store, add the following line under the `<attributes>` key.

``` xml
<attribute key="color" value="green" />
```

You can have multiple attributes with the same name and different type. 
For example, `size` can be expressed as a number (40.5) or as a code ("L").

## Transferring item identifiers

> You could use the data import interface to help migrate the database, when it involves changing 
> item IDs of items that are supported by the recommendation engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could use the data import interface to help migrate the database,
when it involves changing item IDs of items that are supported by the recommendation engine.
```

            </content-data>
        </content>
        <attributes>
            <!--  -->
            <attribute key="author" value="John Doe" />
            <attribute key="agency" value="dpa" />
            <attribute key="vendor" value="BOSCH" />
            <attribute key="weight" value="100" type="NUMERIC" />
        </attributes>
    </item>
</items>
```

!!! note "XML schema definition"

    The current schema that is used for interpreting the XML objects can be seen [here](https://admin.yoochoose.net/api/00000/item/schema.xsd).

> The following keys and attributes used in the XML object are available::

Author: ```suggestion
The following keys and attributes used in the XML object are available:
```

| Key/Attribute | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|---|
| `id` | A unique ID of the item/product. This parameter is required. | integer |
| `type` | An ID of the type of item/product. This parameter is required. | integer |
| `description`|Additional information about the item. | alphanumeric |
| `currency` | Currency used for the price. By default, prices are expressed in EUR. | ISO 4217 |
| `price` | The item's price in the currency's fractional units (for example, cents).<br/>See below for more information. | integer |
| `validfrom` | Together with `validto`, defines the lifespan of an item.<br/>If NULL or not available, the item is considered valid immediately.<br/>See below for more information. | ISO 8601 |
| `validto` | Together with `validfrom`, defines the lifespan of an item.<br/>If NULL or not available, the item is considered valid indefinitely.<br/>See below for more information. | ISO 8601 |

> | `categorypath` | A logical (website) navigation path through which the end user can reach the item/product in your website.<br/>You can define multiple paths for the product.|-|alphanumeric, separated with "/" ("%2F") characters|

Author: ```suggestion
| `categorypath` | A logical (website) navigation path through which the end user can reach the item/product in your website.<br/>You can define multiple paths for the product.|alphanumeric, separated with "/" ("%2F") characters|
```
